In The Cruelest Miles, by Gay and Lana Salisbury, the authors write to express and reflect the struggles of an isolated Alaskan town stricken with a pandemic, and the bravery of many dogsled teams who brought the antivenom across an unforgiving tundra. Sometimes, with the technology of today, people can forget the difficulty and time it took to give help to nearly inaccessible places. In Nome, when the boats left in October, unable to return until the next summer, it was said that “Even God leaves on the last boat.” Then the ice would set in and Nome would be alone. It was this inaccessibility that made the diphtheria epidemic so harsh there on two fronts. There was virtually no way of getting help, and no way for the healthy people to leave. This brings into place the author’s intention of reflecting the heroism of the dogsled teams, while expressing all of the challenges they had to overcome.
Determination and perseverance in any situation, despite huge odds and challenges stacked against people is the very blatant theme presented throughout the book. It surfaces in several ways, one being the very condition that the majority of Alaska is forced to live in. Due to staggeringly cold temperatures and frozen ports, access to Nome is very difficult, limited only to a few months in the summer before the winter sets in. After that, it is essentially cut off from the rest of humanity until the next time the iced-over ocean melts. The people who stay during these snowy months need to weather the rough conditions with next-to-no outside help, it was said that “Even God leaves on the last boat.” The theme is also shown in the courage of the mushers, who, under the immense pressure of racing a deadly epidemic, were able to muster up enough strength, courage, and endurance to succeed in bringing a sick town a desperately needed antidote.
The authors use a tone that generates an awestruck emotion in the readers. By including various stories about the crazy weather, or feats of accomplishment made by these men who seem more than just human, the authors manage to make the reader question if they are truly living life to the fullest. For example, in the story of Big Ben Downing as he made one of his many runs, he “Fell through the ice and was dragged to safety by his dogs. The only way to stay warm was to sprint behind the sled until he reached a roadhouse several miles away. When he arrived… his face, hands, and feet were badly frostbitten… but despite his condition, Downing chose duty over recover. Almost immediately he headed back out to his next destination, three hundred miles away.” It is the compilation of a hundred such stories, all tied together into an even more impossible plot that brings readers this feeling of being awestruck. The style of writing is easy to understand and intriguing. Readers are kept interested and hooked, wanting to know more about the story, and finding out more than they even thought they wanted to know. 
The author may be making a statement about judging the future. Back in the time period explored in the book, airplanes were first making their debut and becoming popular. But the story showed that sometimes, it isn’t the newest technology that works the best, sometimes the tried and true methods are the most valid option. For example, a story that was told in the book about the pilot who was going to attempt to fly the antitoxin into Nome, tells of the difficulties of Alaskan flying, “Wien once landed on top of a 300-foot hill… and found to his horror that he had insufficient room for takeoff. Wien ‘jumped off’ the mountain on the hope that the light plane would catch a lift from the wind.” It describes how lucky he was in that situation, and how his luck held for several more emergency landings and crashes on that same trip. This example proved that as aviation was thwarted by mother nature, the weather and temperature made the attempts to fly in an antidote fail, the age-old tradition of dogsled travel was the way to go. It insinuates a predicament that we may have in this era of fast- advancing technology, maybe newer isn’t better.
The theme of this book has been explored in a lot of the dystopian books that I like to read, however, this provided an actual real-life example of the grit that people show in desperate situations. I was amazed at the determination presented in their actions, for example, “Wild Bill” Shannon, who decided to continue running his dogs, despite breaking the “Rule of the 40s”. When the temperature drops below 40 degrees, “There is little room for error.” He decided to continue his run even though it was 50 below. In my experiences, even negative ten is almost unbearable, I can’t even imagine how cold it was for these men. I was also surprised at the courage of these mushers. When faced with crossing the Norton Sound, Leonhard Seppala made the decision to go straight across the ice, rather than skirting the outside of it. When describing his trip, the book mentioned, “The slightest misstep will result in death. The danger is that a man usually does not realize he is freezing until his brain becomes numb. Then he goes crazy, and that, of course, is the end.” Seppala knew this better than most, having been a veteran musher, and still chose the extremely dangerous route, against the wishes of his higher ups. These feats of bravery and determination really made me think harder on the theme, and maybe even change something in myself because of it.
Modern day heroes are very rarely special before becoming a hero. Heroes are ordinary people presented with opportunities that will test their very character. They are made a hero when they find the strength to persevere through overwhelming challenges, the mental fortitude to sacrifice themselves for others, and the courage to risk things others would avoid. These qualities lay dormant in all humans and just await the chance to show themselves.
Perseverance in spite of challenging situations is what makes a lot of people successful. Kerri Strug, an Olympic gold medalist in the 1996 Olympics, is an amazing example of perseverance. A fellow U.S. athlete commented about Strug’s jump with an injured ankle, “I can’t imagine how much that hurt, and how scared she must have been to land on the final vault routine.” Kerri Strug had one last chance to medal for team USA, but on her previous jump, hurt her ankle upon landing. She pushed through the pain for one more jump, and won a gold, even though she had only one fully functional foot. In The Never Ending Story, Bastian has to persevere until the very end, and even then he has a huge challenge in front of him. “It’s asking whether Bastian is ready.” Bastian must give up everything the Childlike Empress gave to him, and he is unwilling to do so throughout the whole book. But he finds the strength to surpass all the challenges thrown his way, and is able to return home through A U R Y N. In the Sorcerer’s Apprentice, Dave demonstrates great perseverance by pushing through all the trials he is put through. He loses his ring, and Balthazar goes to fight two of the most powerful sorcerers of all time, and Dave goes to help even without magic. But even after suffering a defeat, and Balthazar is killed, Dave keeps at it. He brings Balthazar back to life and defeats Morgana as the Prime Merlinian. Perseverance is the bread and butter of heroism.
The mental fortitude to sacrifice yourself for others doesn’t come easy. But, like courage, it can be summoned when in a stress-filled situation. In the documentary 9/11 Boatlift, Captain Ardulino says, “I’m the kind of person who can’t stand by and let people suffer.” At the time of the 9/11 attack, no one knew what was happening, or if they would be attacked again; the Captain, however, decided that helping others who could not help themselves was worth the risk of being in Manhattan while another plane could attack any minute, and resulted in successfully evacuating many people. Arland Williams Jr. was on an Air Florida flight through a snowstorm, which caused their plane to crash into a freezing lake, killing all but six passengers, who sustained fractures to arms and legs but still managed to swim to the surface. When the helicopter showed up, it dropped a rescue rope. Williams caught the rope and passed it on to the next woman in the water. The helicopter then dropped the rope again, and again, Williams passed it on, doing so three times. When the Helicopter returned for him the last time, Williams had drowned in the freezing waters of the Potomac. He had passed on rescue to absolute strangers, even with shattered limbs and frostbite from sitting in the water. His high school girlfriend told reporters that “He'd had that fear of water his whole life,” yet he still sacrificed his life for others. Sergeant Marlana Watson, a member of the Army National Guard, saved two boys’ lives after a drive-by shooting. Watson’s family says, “She always puts others before herself.” Watson took control of a possibly dangerous situation, administering first aid until medics got there.
Courage is instinctively valued by humans, and no matter the situation, we look up to it. The dictionary defines courage as “the ability to do something that frightens one,” and, “strength in the face of pain or grief.” In almost everyone’s eyes, dying is terrifying. But, in a situation where pain and grief are involved, the strength needed to stand strong often gives people the ability to sacrifice their life in order to save another’s. Napoleon Bonaparte, a strong French conqueror, said “Courage is not having the strength to go on, it is going on when you don’t have the strength.” This means that those with great courage find ways to get past the point where you don’t have the strength to continue on, but move past it. Humans value that strength because they want to have some in themselves. Fourteen year old James Persyn III was babysitting his two siblings when a rape victim began ”frantic[ally] banging on the door of his house.” She had escaped the rapist and came to the closest house with help. Persyn let her in, and seeing the headlights of the attacker, locked all the doors, and locked themselves in the bathroom with nothing but a hunting knife. The assailant was yelling into the house to let him in, or he’d kill them. When he wasn’t let in, he poured gasoline everywhere and lit the house on fire. But Persyn was brave and didn’t let a person who needed help suffer.
Captain Ardulino believes that, “I believe [everybody] has a little hero in them, you gotta look in. It’s in there, it’ll come out if need be it.” He saw a need, and provided a solution. And he helped evacuate hundreds of people that fateful day. Others have found the mental fortitude to sacrifice themselves for others, the courage to risk things others would avoid, and the strength to persevere in spite of overwhelming challenges too, and nearly all are recognized as heroes. You don’t have to fall in a vat of toxic waste, or come from another planet to be a hero. Having perseverance and strength even when times get tough and the mental fortitude to make sacrifices turn anyone, especially ordinary people into extraordinary heroes.
As westward expansion in the US progressed, millions of Native Americans were killed, displaced, and abused as eager white settlers conquered Indian land. Despite desperate efforts to avoid an inevitable war with their technologically superior invaders, the Natives were unable to stave it off. The Dawes Act was put in place as a White attempt to help the Indians, which ended up creating unwanted tensions between the races. However, the assimilation involved corrupted and changed many things in the Native’s culture.This composed the White-Indian interaction of the late eighteenth century.
The Sioux knew that the Native population would be unable to stand in a direct combat with the Whites because of the vast difference in technology and weaponry. This being the case, when a treaty was struck between the Sioux and the Whites, at first they accepted it. The treaty aimed for peace between the races by allowing an area of land in the Black Hills to remain untouched by the Whites.  However, Col. Custard and a group of miners found gold in that area soon after, and the US Army moved in and tried to force the Natives out. In retaliation, the Natives massacred Custer, hoping that their show of force would make the Americans leave them alone. This failed in the long term, and they ended up getting driven out of their area six years later.
Dawes tried to help the Indians because he knew that their situation was going to be much worse if nothing was done. He tried to offer a compromise, a chance to come into White society. He gave them land to own so that White settlers could not try to lay claim to it, he just gave them a task of farming the land and making it livable for themselves. However, the land he allotted was far from ideal, much of it was non fertile, and many indians viewed the prospect of becoming a rancher as distasteful. This ended up creating many new problems, some that were never resolved.
The Dawes act, while on the surface seemed good-intentioned, ended up changing many aspects of the natives lives. For instance, prior to their White assimilation, the Natives had no concept of owning land, it was simply communally owned and everybody worked as one to maintain it. Another example was a loss of language, as groups were forced to learn English, generations down the line began to forget their ancestral tongues. Indians were also forced to receive White names, so that they would be more easily recognizable for the American people. These changes in Indian ways of living resulted with a huge loss in fascinating and deep culture that will never be restored.  
Native American people were hit hard with loss of culture and many other shortcomings as America attempted to assimilate them into their White society. War devastated many populations, as efforts to avoid it proved futile. Henry Dawes and a few other White people attempted to help the Natives, but their solutions included very little of what the Native Americans would have wanted. The Dawes act forced White culture upon the Indians, and ended up causing parts of their culture to drastically change. The Indians have gotten the short side of the stick ever since European settlers first showed up on their shore, and their beautifully thick culture has been largely lost to the ages.
In this argumentative essay, I would give myself a 5- because I feel that I adequately argued the prompt, using good diction, and conveying my ideas. Mrs. Tucker gave me a 3-, but as I sent my essay to two other sources, a friend in the DP program, and my mother, who minored in English, to grade it and help me with feedback, I received their personal opinions that a 3- was too low for my  paper. They had no knowledge of what the other said, and still they suggested a score of 5- and a 4+, because they felt that I did a better job than the requirements for a 3, which are, “Less than inadequately argue[s] the prompt… evidence or explanations [are] inappropriate….”  I agreed with their conclusions, and believe that I should have received a higher score than what I earned.
I think one of my biggest strengths was my introduction, especially the thesis, which was clear and included a limit. I argued that people conform despite facts showing that they should not. This thesis shows my stance and sets up the rest of my argument by giving a clear argument. While this part was good, I included a fact that needed to be reworded, as I wrote it, I thought that “Homo Sapiens as a species” was a singular subject, but should have made it plural. I was also unclear in the phrase, “This causes a desire to not stand out, but to be united and similar.” In Mrs. Tucker’s notes, she asks, “Must we be similar to be united?” indicating that she deciphered it as one subject. I did not intend this, I meant to list two different situations we find ourselves wanting to be, which were a general similarity, and also being united as one. Besides these two flaws in wording, making my intentions unclear, I feel that I had a fairly strong introductory paragraph. 
I had some issues with the body paragraphs, mostly clarity problems. For example, the introduction to my second body paragraph, “Another reason people conform to society is due to another natural human trait,” was very vague and needed a specific trait. If I could go back and change it, I would add, “ another natural human trait, which is our innate need to feel better about ourselves by putting other people down.” This addition adds clarity to the sentence and leads into what I will argue in that paragraph. I also got stuck using cliche phrases a few times, and will ensure that I avoid those for future essays. Despite these flaws, I believe that my body paragraphs were able to successfully explain my argument and relay my message.
In my conclusion, I sum up the argument that I just presented, and I think I did a good job with it. However, Mrs. Tucker noted that I contradicted myself in by saying that, “Many plain and simple facts prove that having many unique perspectives and opinions provides the best result,” because, “opinions and objective facts are not the same.” The sentence could have been phrased better, but my intention was to point out that it is a proven fact that an environment will not work well if only one type of person is present. A house will never be built if the only personnel on the job are architects. There needs to be a diversity of architects and plumbers and electricians and builders, they all need to build off of each other. In addition, my concluding sentence, while it works as a concluding sentence, ended up bringing up a great point that, had I more time, I may have transferred into one of my body paragraphs and developed more. 
Overall, I feel that I need to get better at arguing my point, rather than just presenting examples, and at keeping my arguments clear and concise. I believe that I did well in presenting my thesis, and by using effective diction. I am also confident in my punctuation, spelling, and grammar, and I feel that it is understandable to a reader.
Because of many strong points in my essay, particularly a strong thesis, good metaphors, use of idioms, and several good, related examples, I feel that I did relatively well in arguing the prompt. My evidence and explanations were at times limited due to the time constraint that I felt was rushing me, and there are a few lapses in syntax, but overall I feel that it conveys my ideas well. I would give it a 5 because of these facts coming from the rubric.
My introductory paragraph included an allusion to the Vampire Ivy, a plant that I learned about in my Boy Scouting experiences. I feel that I wove it into my thesis statement well, connecting it to several points as a metaphor for people who stand by and allow the plant to grow unopposed. My thesis itself is an umbrella thesis, combining both of my reasons into one phrase, “[People who don’t act] are a greater problem than those [who] actually act on the immoral issues because by standing aloof, they are allowing the immorality to further ingrain itself into society.” This thesis exactly shows my view on the subject and sets up my argument well.
In my first paragraph, I described a reason that people use to excuse themselves from standing against things they don’t believe in, which is that they are scared of being the only one walking up the metaphorical stream of people who conformed to the injustices. But I debunked this feeling by using the example of a former LDS Bishop, which evokes some ethos because of his position, and the experiences of Rosa Parks. I connected these examples to the thesis, and even referenced the Vampire Ivy from the introduction again, and I feel that they get the message across very well. 
I am not as proud of my second paragraph, mostly because Mrs. Tucker gave a five minute warning only shortly after I started it, so I really had to rush through most of it. I used two books, a historical fiction and a dystopian novel, both that I had read over the summer. The reason that people won’t stand for what they believed in that I addressed in this paragraph was the fact that they feel uncertain under “the threat of retribution.” Using the example of a Nazi officer who cannot leave his political party without bringing great danger to his family, I exemplified this effect. I definitely should have added more commentary in this example, linking it to the introduction better, but I needed to move on very quickly. The second example I used, I tried to get the idea across of a realistic situation in which a young girl hates her friend more than her sworn enemy, because he knew about the New Bloods and yet refused to help protect them. Again, I should have connected this example to the introduction better, but was quickly running out of time, and I still needed to write a conclusion, so I decided to move on. 
My conclusion was very good, in spite of the waning time. I included a metaphor that reflected my reasons well, using cracks in a dam in the same way that people can stand for what they believe in. I did not have enough time to finish this paragraph, I was going to write about the Vampire Ivy and bring my analogy full circle, but sadly, the timer went off before I could.
Overall, I feel like this essay demonstrates about seventy five percent of what I am capable of. I would have liked more time, but seeing as that wish will not come true, I need to work on thinking and writing my ideas down faster. However, with the work that I did, I feel that I “argued the prompt,” to take the words out of the rubric. Despite having limited evidence and explanations, and some lapses in diction and syntax, I think that my essay successfully conveyed my ideas.
In this most recent essay we wrote, on John F Kennedy’s Speech about the rising steel prices in America, we were plunged into the world of rhetorical analysis essays.  This being one of our first such essays, a lower score is to be expected.  I received a 2+, which was a small shock, coming from my previous essay’s score of 5+, but it leaves ample room for improvement.  The AP grading scale says that my score shows “little success” largely because of the fact that I had “misunderstood the prompt.” This reasoning makes my grade clear as to why it is so low, as an essay with a thesis that is off-prompt cannot inherently do well in the end.  Despite this, I feel that there were other elements of my essay that showed very well, such as my analysis of the terms in the heart of the piece, which I thought were strong and concise and to a point.  While I am not proud of my grade, I keep an optimistic eye out because I now know several places where I can improve on the prose and I now have new strategies to better analyze and convey my thoughts, so I know that I can get better scores in the future.  I plan to do that through better management of my time so that I can focus in on who the author is directing his message to, and what that message may be.
I think that my biggest problem was the fact that I had misunderstood the message.  I had thought that JFK was speaking to the apathetic Americans who did not take as much interest in their business responsibilities, instead of directly chastising the steel industries about raising their prices.  I believe that if I had acknowledged this message correctly, then I would have gotten a much better score, because I centered my analysis over the wrong message.  Another thing that I could have done better, again, was to correctly identify the audience.  In my essay, I was vague when I was referring to the audience, mostly because I could not figure out who it was.  I think that if I had analyzed the passage better, I would have discovered both the true audience and the correct message, and would have improved my score up to at least a four.
These weaknesses aside, I believe that my body paragraphs, the parts containing the analysis of the rhetorical devices, were very strong.  I identified that Kennedy employed anaphora and alliteration to carry his message of warning to the steel industries.  I think that I used good, related passages and connected them well through transitions and commentary.  While describing the prescience that Kennedy’s use of anaphora offered those who heard his speech, I emphasized that this repetition of his points was very influential in what listeners took away from his speech.  In every one of his important claims, he used some sort of anaphora to drive it home, so I felt that it was the most appropriate device to include.  I also deduced that his use of alliteration to draw the listener’s ear served to increase retention of information that Kennedy had to give.  In addition, I feel that my addition of these very rhetorical devices into my essay, including phrases with alliteration in several parts of the essay, and repeating one point as an anaphora, serve to further prove my knowledge and grasp of the rhetorical terms in that my ability to use them effectively.  I think that these and other instances of strengths made my essay sound more convincing and more interesting to read.
In conclusion, I attribute my lower score largely to my misinterpretation of the passage.  This being said, I firmly believe that it does not reflect my skills as a writer, but my skills as an analyst of the piece’s message and intended audience.  I expect my next essay to show much improvement because I will be extra sure to pay close attention to details in tone, diction, and content to find the true intents of the author. 
As Alex Honnold crested the peak of El Capitan, he was able to breathe a sigh of relief and relax for the first time in four hours. He had crawled, hand over hand, foothold over tiny foothold, for three thousand feet vertically, and the biggest shock of all, he had climbed it all without a rope to hold him up. The entire way up, he knew that it his finger slipped, he was dead. Luckily for all aspiring climbers who are not yet at the super-human level of Alex Honnold, there are safety ropes and belayers to keep people from falling more than a few feet after they slip off the wall. A belayer’s primary job is to be ready to catch their climber in situations where a fall could mean death or injury. Being the climber’s only safety precaution puts an enormous responsibility in a belayer’s hands, and thus, it is imperative that they are aware of the best way to “belay” their partner.
There are two main methods of belaying. There is the “V-to-the-Knee” method, and the “Up-Down-Shift-Shift” method. Both methods will work, however, it is important to know the advantages and disadvantages of each. Many people view the “Up-Down-Shift-Shift” method as easier, as their hands never need to leave the rope. By simultaneously pulling down with the guide hand, and pulling slack through the device with the brake hand, then shifting their hands back to their original positions, a belayer is able to pull a lot of slack without having to focus too intensely on their hand movements. It does present the problem, however, that for a brief second, there is no brake on the rope, and if the climber were to fall at that precise moment, it could prove disastrous.
Alternatively, one could choose to use the “V-to-the-Knee” method. This technique involves making a V with the rope while pulling in the slack, locking the rope off down towards the knee, then counting “1...2...3…” as you climb your hands over each other to return to their original positions. This approach has several appeals, the largest being that the time where the rope is not being braked is very minimal, and can be controlled with the other hand while the brake hand pulls the slack. Another appeal is that it has a singsong rhyme to help people remember, “V to the Knee, 1, 2, 3,” making it hard to forget what comes next. The difficulty comes from the initially strange progression of the belayer’s hands after taking in the slack, the “1, 2, 3” part. This makes the method difficult at first for some belayers, which elicits feelings of unsureness, and brings in chances to make mistakes. As a belayer, it is extremely important that the technique that allows for the most amount of control and the least amount of mistakes is chosen.
With trust in their belayer to know how to keep them safe, a climber is able to push their own thoughts of safety to the back of their mind and focus more wholly on finding the next handhold and pushing themselves higher and higher. This is the ultimate goal of a belayer, to allow their climber the most success possible, while keeping them safe. By adhering to one of these belay techniques, they can be sure to accomplish this, and have a safe time climbing.
In this poem, Kasischke laments the many moments in life in which every person falls short. She manages to capture the essence of all these shortcomings through several concise statements that are easy to empathise with, for example, claiming to be “The ox which drew the cart full of urgent messages straight into the river, emerging none the wiser on the opposite side,” “The warrior who killed a sparrow with a cannon,” and, “The guardian who led the child by the hand into the cloud, and emerged holding only an empty glove.” Each of these phrases embodies a simple mistake that every person has experienced or will yet experience, and in relating all of them, she creates a connection that leaves readers feeling assured that they are not alone in their faults. For example, the ox represents a situation in which one is moving along with a task or responsibility, and without realizing it, winds up losing all progress and may or may not even be aware of what is happening. This can leave a sympathetic impression on the reader, whether they are living through something trivial, such as accidentally deleting a school paper, or very consequential, like a family that is slowly growing farther apart no matter what attempts that individual makes to fix it. The ox is able to bridge the gap and provide a figurative shoulder for them to lean on during their struggles. Additionally, the warrior killing something so small as a sparrow with something so destructive as a cannon stands for taking a problem that's small and turning it into something huge. Making a mountain out of a molehill is not simply a hackneyed phrase, but something that happens on a consistent and regular basis to many individuals all over. But again, Kasischke is able to connect to the reader to assure them that they are not alone. The guardian losing her child in a cloud stands for simple, well-meant mistakes. Those who are doing their best to be successful and still falling short slot into this category. Even if they do everything right, and nothing goes wrong, some people still just emerge from a cloud holding only an empty glove. Just as with the previous two examples, the author is reaching out and lending her own hand in comfort, proudly standing beside their mistakes. This is the purpose behind her poem, to raise a flag tall exclaiming that she has these shortcomings, that everybody has these shortcomings, ultimately to tell her readers one quintessential fact that she makes use of metaphors and imagery to concrete into their consciences: “You are not alone.”
This poem explores the extent of the mind’s ability to hear a voice without really hearing anything at all. In the first three stanzas, Frank Bidart uses thick imagery to give the reader a context in which to imagine, utilizing a pointed diction with words like “grinding,” “flattened,” and “mutilated,” to establish the perception of the Joker’s voice. Additionally, he not only provides an in depth description of how he sounds, but how he looks while speaking. This adds to the effect, because humans rely largely on sight. By including the visual, it increases the effect of the illusion of actually hearing him speaking by creating a situation in which the reader can imagine sitting in front of him as he talks to them. For the rest of the poem, the author changes syntax and style, including only two to three words per line. This emulates the way that the Joker speaks, and is the final piece needed for a reader to hear his voice in their minds without any auditory stimulus. With the final lines, he refers to a hook that is attached to the soul. This is a representation of how his character is attached to the reader’s mind, and how they don’t even need to hear him with their ears to hear his voice. Simply by setting the stage with imagery and cleverly chosen syntax, the author conveys the Joker’s pure voice directly from the reader’s memory.
This poem reveals the thought process of a person who’s anxiety plagues them day after day. Anxiety is almost a tangible being for them, and they have come to expect its arrival. It has become a recurring theme, presenting itself daily, and the narrator has lost all hope that it will get better. He expects the personified Fear’s arrival every night, ready to ask in his dreams, “What do you have for me tonight?” They do not know if their tormentor is benevolent, and is reluctantly doling out troubles, or if he gets sadistic enjoyment from their woes, shown through lines nine and ten, “Maybe he smiles when he finds the right one. / Maybe he’s sorry.” Additionally, the narrator pleas with Fear that he may know what he is to bear this time. His resignation to his fate is evident, for instead of asking to hold nothing, he begs for it to be small, enough to fit in his pocket, enough to fall out of the hole in his pocket. This futile view is unfortunate because it shows how much hope the narrator holds for his situation to get better in the future. He knows he’s stuck with it, and that he’s not getting out of it. His anxiety, his Fear is and forever will be his constant companion. 
This poem ends with the line, “there is no planet stranger / than the one i’m from, “which is both an apology and a gesture of friendship to Superman. Firstly, the author is making a connection with Superman, referencing a few of his quirks and admitting that she understands it all, by claiming, “i understand the cape, / the leggings, the whole / ball of wax,”. She affirms that it may seem weird on the superficial level, but if one were to look deeper, they realize that there is a purpose for everything. At first, it seems almost silly to be wearing a bright cape and leggins, but if one simply thinks about the way he wants to separate himself from the innocent civilians, in order to create a target on himself rather than those who cannot protect themselves, his outlandish outfit makes a lot of sense. Additionally, the poem is apologizing for the mess that the world is consistently in, lamenting that “every crook in town / filthy with kryptonite.” The world seems bent on destroying everything good, and it learns, the ways it attacks good become more and more effective and widespread -- affecting us in the same way that access to kryptonite being widespread affects Superman. We know, however, that he continues to do his best to contest the spread of the bad, and thus, it is implied that we should also do our part. 
This informative article cites the elements of the genre of many of Shakespeare’s plays. It gives a brief explanation of both, along with the other genres of his works like his histories. It then proceeds to give a more in depth explanation of each.
The site will prove to be very useful, as it provides the characteristics that I plan on structuring my essay around. I don’t need the parts on histories, as I will be using the site as a basis to build a checklist on elements of each genre. Thus,I just need the info on the comedies and the tragedies.

Source 2:
Woodman, Jenny L. "Remedy and the turning point of genre in Measure for Measure." Shakespeare Newsletter, Spring 2004, p. 21+. Literature Resource Center, https://link.galegroup.com/apps/doc/A122105329/LitRC?u=colo26014&sid=LitRC&xid=50f9b1ef. Accessed 19 Mar. 2019. 
This essay answers the question: Is there a transition from tragedy to comedy in Measure for Measure, and if so, where is it? It addresses the generally accepted places of shift, and suggests one of its own. The essay also compares Measure for Measure against Othello, providing some context and points of reference. 
I plan on using this literary analysis as grounds to back my arguments up, the compilation of several publications’ views on the state of the genre of the play is very helpful and convenient. I also like the argument about how “a remedy presents itself,” and plan on using it in my arguments.
	How do the genres of tragedy and comedy present themselves in Measure for Measure, and what effect do they  have on the tone of the message of the play?

In the mid-fifteen hundreds, King James l of Scotland was crowned King of England, uniting the two countries and becoming the first King of Great Britain. With his rise to power, an acclaimed poet and playwright, William Shakespeare, was inspired by events and as a result, published several plays, including Measure for Measure, in which he includes subtle warnings to the king about his ruling strategy. This time marked a shift in his style, changing the manner in which he wrote his plays. Prior to that time, his plays could be easily classified as a comedy, tragedy, romance, or history. But with this shift, the determination was muddled and the lines between his genres were blurred. It became more difficult to assign a single genre to any one work, because they held so many characteristics of multiple. This is especially apparent in Measure for Measure, which displays elements of both tragedy and comedy. However, this new style added new range and depth to Shakespeare’s plays, and Measure for Measure reaped its boon from the aftermath of the new style of genre: the dark comedy. Expressed as a tug-of-war between comedy and tragedy, it creates a complexity that creates a message that is more poignant and empathizable.
	On the surface, Measure for Measure appears to be a tragedy. A new ruler steps into power, clenches his iron fist of justice over a poor and insouciant populace, and one girl departs on a quest to save her brother from execution - only to find that she must completely give herself to the new leader in order to save him. It has all of the elements of a Shakespearean Tragedy: character isolation, death, an inescapable situation, and a noble character with a hamartia. Isabella finds herself as the sole savior for her brother Claudio, and she knows from the beginning that she is the only one that can save him. Her isolation leads to the aggravation of her faults and the trials of her character that build up into the climax of the play. Additionally, Angelo, despite being one of the most powerful men in Vienna, is isolated by the same power that builds him up. His harsh implementation of the justice system meets much detestation, which doesn’t make him any friends among the citizens. On top of that, the only character that could be considered Angelo’s friend is Escalus, but he is simply an advisor to the Duke who was tasked with aiding and watching Angelo in the Duke’s absence, so Escalus is present and pleasant on occupational terms, and on a loyalty to the Duke. The second essense of a tragedy is death. Macbeth dies, Julius Caesar dies, Hamlet dies; the ultimate tragedy lies in a character losing all of himself, and then losing the only thing he has left to give: his life. While there is no such death in Measure for Measure, the figurative death of Isabella’s morals, conscience, and faith comes when she agrees to go along with the disguised duke’s manipulative plan. Her loss of faith, and therefore, the loss of her character, stems from the third element of a tragedy, being in a situation that is inescapable, or at least one that appears that way to the character. Isabella sees that the only way to save her brother is to give in to Angelo’s dastardly demands, and she believes that there is no alternate escape route for him. That is, until the Duke presents her with his secret plan to have Marianna pretend to be Isabella and ensnare Angelo in an inescapable situation himself. Thus, Isabella finds herself as the embodiment of the fourth and final element of Shakespearean Tragedy: a noble character with a flaw that becomes their downfall. Isabella is presented with a difficult choice, to sin with Angelo in order to save her brother’s life, or to lie and decieve for the same effect. Both involve her sinning against her faith in order to rescue her kin, but one results in the destruction of her pride and the other ends in a man being trapped by the bounds of society in a manner that he does not want. Isabella does not take a moment to consider the life she is about to irrevocably force into a new position, nor does she consider the repercussions of choosing to follow a religious leader’s suggestion to lie and decieve. She is so blinded by her pride that losing it is never even an option for her, and consequently, she loses it anyways by going through with the plan. These elements make for a bleak and tragic outlook for the play, but when considering the tragedy of Measure for Measure, one must also look at the other side of the coin, the comedic aspects.
	Shakespeare’s comedies can likewise be identified through four key elements: an element of separation and reunification, mistaken identities often involving disguise, complex interwoven plotlines, and the frequent use of puns and other styles of comedy. All of these elements are also prominent in the book, in fact, the first element drives the entire plot. Isabella and Claudio are separated by the bars of a prison and by the threat of death, but are brought together again in the end. Additionally, the Duke disguises himself and steps his way into other characters’ lives, and his identity, true to the second element of a comedy, is mistaken multiple times. Shakespeare plays with dramatic irony in these scenes, such as when Lucio is gossiping about the Duke to the friar, who he doesn’t know is in fact the very man that he speaks of, in order to make many comedic moments wrought from situations like this. Additionally, the play is written as a set of complex, interlocking plotlines, as the experiences of one character directly affect those of another, often creating situations that were very unpredictable. And last but not least, the presence of puns and jokes and other manner of comedy is very noticable. They rest in every situation, like Elbow mixing up his words often and saying things like ‘benefactors' when he means ‘malefactors' or criminals, the humorous names given to many characters in the brothel, or the irony and play on words that Isabella’s role as a sister, or a nun, is put aside for her sisterhood to Claudio. 
With this, all elements of comedy are also present. They mingle with the tragedy, creating a marbled, muddy mess that hides a shining, crystal clear message through the tone that this mixed genre portrays. The combination of tragedy and comedy is not one that is conventional or logical, but it does wonders when pulled off correctly. In the case of Measure for Measure, the complexity is more realistic towards real life situations, as they rarely seem to be filled with a single emotion, and due to this, the audience can connect better emotionally to the problems of the play. It also allows it to build an incredible amount of tension and heavy moments before letting a comedic moment lower the pressure slightly before building again to new heights. This is difficult to do for straight tragedy or straight comedy, because too much tension for too long is exhausting and can lose the audience’s attention, but when combined, it allows the perfect venue for it to be portrayed. Additionally, the complexity of the genre allows the author more freedom and creativity with his situations, having tools from both to create and solve any kind of problem. The extra emotional compatibility due to the realistic entanglement of genres creates a means for the message to hit the audience closer to home, and reside in their heart as something they can connect to from personal experience. These messages and techniques all benefit from having the complex combination of comedy and tragedy both existing in the same space in Measure for Measure. 
In his student essay, “Make it Rain: Why the Nation Needs a Universal Basic Income,” published in the Cavalier Daily in 2014, Gray Whisnant claims that in order to eliminate most of the poverty in America, the government must adopt a new strategy that condenses the many, unorganized, policies that, alone, do not work to their fullest extent. Whisnant supports this claim through many historical and political examples, developing a sense of ethos in the readers through his vast extent of knowledge on economical proceedings in America. He aims to promote the idea of a Universal Basic Income in order to encourage voters and politicians to turn towards adding UBI policies. By targeting those who can influence the direction the government heads, he attempts to appeal towards his audience’s sense of nationality and compassion, believing that if Americans adopted these policies, they will effectively end poverty in the USA.
This poem by Robert Frost describes a crossroads that he comes upon, a metaphor for a decision he must make. Both options look fair and good to him, and he knows that once he starts down one path, he will never return to try the other. This is because once you make a decision, it changes all of the circumstances around you and it is impossible to go back exactly how things were to try the other one. In Frost’s situation, he recognizes that one path is commonly traveled, while the other lays undisturbed in the morning. He decides to take the path less chosen, in order to have an experience more unique, and to be able to live for himself and not simply follow blindly like a sheep. His example goes to show that we must choose for ourselves our own path, no matter how unique and rare it may be, because it will make us who we are, and no one else can be like you.
During a news conference in 1962, John F. Kennedy, the thirty fifth president of the United States, warns that the companies and industries that are raising their steel prices will receive retribution if they do not return the costs to as they were. He develops his claim by first referring to historical examples of parallel situations, then identifying the disastrous outcomes, and finally by shaming them for their acts of selfishness. This admonition comes in order to protect the economy of America from tycoon’s and monopolies, as the simple act of raising steel prices will “increase the cost of of homes, autos, appliances, and most other items for every American family.” By riding on his authority as the president of the United States, he hopes to subjugate the proud steel enterprises into following his advice and heeding his warning.
In his book, The Future of Life, Edward O. Wilson posits that the way people judge each other may be hasty, callous, and sometimes downright incorrect. The author presents this suggestion through two antithetical passages that satirize the harsh classifications of two opposing groups, and prove how similar their accusations are. He wishes to unite all clashing groups such as this because the time wasted on silly arguments about each other would be much better spent accomplishing what they intend to do. Thus, as he speaks to all people belonging to any party that thinks down on another, and he invites them under his wing, to link arms and laugh at the absurdity of a problem that exists everywhere.
The Tell Tale Heart by Edgar Allan Poe and The Monkey’s Paw by William Jacobs unfold characteristics of the horror genre through setting, tone and the characters’ insane actions resulting in bad consequences.
The Monkey’s Paw by William Jacobs unfolds characteristics of the horror genre by presenting a mysterious artifact designed to teach lessons in a terrible way. The setting is instantly presented to the reader, staying true to the typical horror setting standards: dark and creepy, "...Beastly, slushy, out of the way places to live." This instills an unsettling feeling within the reader, and plants the seed of suspense. Also, the character’s insanity makes readers feel an inner intensity, fear, and dread. “[Mrs. White] cried wildly,” along with other acts of craziness increase these feelings.
Characteristics of the horror genre are also revealed in the Tell Tale Heart by Edgar Allan Poe. One is suspense, as in, “For a whole hour I did not move a muscle.” It takes the character eight days to complete his task. All the while, the reader is anxiously wondering what will happen. Another horror genre element is denial of the evil inside.  The main character is trying to prove that he is not a madman, and the reader is allowed into his head to decide if they agree. The reader is able to witness his insanity firsthand, and watch as he justifies his craziness “Would a madman be so wise as this?”
These characteristics of the horror genre are unfolded throughout The Tell Tale Heart and The Monkey’s Paw. Other works of horror use these characteristics to create tension and dread within the reader, and they make the reader cares more for what's going to happen than the characters.
Beginning with the happy-go-lucky romance of one couple, this poem may seem about a man’s greatest love; however, that could not be farther from the truth. “Annabel Lee” is about a living nightmare, where death is just around the corner, and the world is an evil, terrifying place. Edgar Allen Poe describes a couple’s love as endless and boundless, unable to be broken even by something as devastating as a jarring death. In that case, Poe presents the love as becoming eternal, and while painful, one’s true love will live forever in their heart. The somber meaning of the piece is presented through the setting, the use of shifts and the tone of the author, and especially by the actual historical background of the things happening in Poe’s life at the time that the poem was written. 
	Poe is a renowned poet in many countries for his works, with “Annabel Lee” being one of his finest masterpieces.  One of the biggest reasons for his success is because of his ability to manipulate the mood of his pieces, largely by creating an unsettling setting. In the poem “Annabel Lee,” he creates an entire world, that resembles no other place on earth. His profound imagery in this piece gives readers a chance to envision a huge castle with big steel gates and commanding towers, especially by repeating the phrase, “In this Kingdom by the sea.” Pictures of jagged cliffs and black, treacherous waters just waiting to swallow them up dance through the mind. And in lines 30 and 31, when the speaker refers to the “Angels in Heaven above/ and… the demons down under the sea,”  Poe makes it sound as if the speaker can peek his head over the edge of the cliff and actually see demons squirming and writhing under the water, or look up to see big scary angels with flaming swords. This imagery makes the piece feel more realistic and helps the reader better connect to it. 
In addition to his manipulation of setting, Poe also uses a stark, stunning shift of the mood of the piece to draw readers’ attentions to his poems. In the first half of the poem, the speaker sounds happy and carefree, jubilant with his Annabel Lee. But the mood is drastically turned on its head in line 26, which reads “Chilling and killing my Annabel Lee,” when his beloved is abruptly, mysteriously frozen to death. After that shift, the speaker laments his love, hallucinating her in everything he sees, still being unable to sleep due to her loss. The piece has a joyous tone at the beginning that shifts to a distraught feeling at the end of the piece. However, there is an underlying feeling of edginess and bereavement that hides underneath even the first, “happy,” portion. It is subtle, but reveals itself through slightly “creepy” phrases and word choices, such as saying “For the moon never beams, without bringing me dreams/ Of the beautiful Annabel Lee,” eliciting an eery feeling from an attentive reader. It reveals a deeper darker side to the poem, while simultaneously suggesting love’s power over even the worst tragedies. 
The poem on the surface is a sad ballad for a lost lover. But the poem’s depth does not end there, the historical context adds substance that brings to light a few of the mysteries of the poem. The author, Edgar Allen Poe, was going through some dark times during the writing of this work of literature. Poe married his cousin Virginia Clemm when she was just thirteen years old. In the beginning, it states that “[Annabel Lee] was a child,” at the time that their love blossomed. There is a strong correlation that the Annabel Lee who is spoken of in the poem is meant to represent Poe’s wife. To further back that claim, Poe and Clemm lived together for years, and Poe was ever in love with his wife. However, when she was struck down with a severe case of Tuberculosis, she died in 1847. This was heartbreaking to Poe, and is illustrated in this poem, written two short years later, about the love of one’s life being ripped away from them with no warning.
“Annabel Lee” is one of Edgar Allen Poe’s greatest works of all time. He explores the joys of a true love and infatuation, and the thoughts and feelings that one may have after the absolute devastation of all that they hoped and dreamed about. It also includes the opinions of a poet who was on the throes of death himself, with very similar experiences fresh in his mind. Despite being on his deathbed, Poe was desperate to get this piece out to the public, sending it to several publishers for insurance to be printed. Finally published two days after his passing, it was the final complete poem written by Poe, solidifying his legacy with this message of love’s eternal strength, despite the odds against it. Through the world that he created for it, his strong use of shifts and both obvious and subtle tone, and especially by historical context of Poe’s life, a masterpiece was created that will touch the hearts of many, and hopefully inspire a few to remember their love, and to cherish them while they can. 

